#  CLASSICAL SEVENSI XII :: GRAMMAR I  #

This document defines the Level I grammars for CLASSICAL SEVENSI XII.

##  Verbals:  ##

__Verbals__ are the top-level functions of CLASSICAL SEVENSI XII.
They describe a event or state of being, and draw a relationship between the arguments of a verb to produce meaning.

The most basic verbal is nothing more than an impersonal verb with zero arguments.
This takes the following form:

```
V     =  verb0               ; verbal
```

However, a verb can have as many as two arguments, which are referred to as __nominals__.
Nominals are nothing more than arguments to verbs, but they usually describe concepts or things.
Nominals can be placed before a verb to create a __verbal phrase__, as follows:

```
V     =/ VP
VP0   =  verb0               ; impersonal verbal phrase
VP1   =  SUBJ verb1          ; intransitive verbal phrase
VP2   =  SUBJ OBJ verb2      ; transitive verbal phrase
VP    =  VP0 / VP1 / VP2     ; verbal phrase
SUBJ  =  N                   ; subject
OBJ   =  N                   ; object
```

The first nominal in a verbal phrase is known as the __subject__, while the second is the __object__.
You will note that in the definition above, impersonal verbs can also function on their own as verbal phrases.

| History |
| ------- |
| Although CLASSICAL SEVENSI XII has a subject-object-verb word-order, this was not the case for all of the JASTU-SEVENSI languages from which it descends. PROTO&ndash;JASTU-SEVENSI is speculated to have used a object-verb-subject word-order, and the subject was carried to the front of the sentence only later. |

##  Nominals:  ##

As mentioned above, nominals serve as the arguments to verbals.
The simplest nominal is nothing more than a noun.

```
N     =  noun                ; nominal
```

A noun on its own refers to a concept only in the most abstract sense, however.
For example, a noun meaning _tree_ might be used in this way to speak of _trees generally_ but never to refer to a specific tree.
To achieve this higher level of specificity, we precede the noun with an article to create a basic __nominal phrase__.

```
N     =/ NP
NP    =  [art] noun          ; nominal phrase
```

As you can see, all nouns can function as nominal phrases, but the converse is not necessarily true.

##  Sentences:  ##

A sentence is a complete thought.
Generally speaking, sentences will be verbals, but they may also be nominals in select instances (for example, as a response to a question).

```
S     =  V / N               ; sentence
```
