{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf480
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset77 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset77 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\info
{\keywords cursorLocation=1380, fitsPagesWidth=1}}\margl1134\margr1134\margb1134\margt1134\vieww15520\viewh15860\viewkind1\viewscale121
\pard\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Dictionary	Timeline\
\pard\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \ulnone VIII	Basic vocabulary develops\'d1the completed "Trustian" root language\
IX	Language splits regionally.  Basic farming develops.\
X	More advanced farming techniques develop, trade starts locally.  Bow &\
	Arrow develops\
XI  (yr. -4200)	Trade expands to cover the continent, S. traders use pictures for inventory\
XII  (yr. -4100)	S. picture system spreads to cover region, other words start to develop\
	picts.\
XIII  (yr. -3700)	Advanced S. written language develops.  SE. starts adapting S. language\
	into a syllabary
\f1 \uc0\u8232 
\f0 XIV  (yr. -3450)	SE. region starts to expand and build an empire.  W. region also expands\
XV  (yr. -2950)	SE region expands to cover most of continent.  Political words develop.\
XVI  (yr. -2200)	Cities start to build around trade centers.  Technological advances\
	continue.\
XVII  (yr. -1450)	Technological developments such as gunpowder and printing take place.\
XVIII  (yr. -800)	Moving-block printing develops.  Science begins to form.\
XIX  (yr. -200)	First contact with Hope is made.  Scientific studies vastly increase\
	vocabulary.\
XX  (yr. 0)	Trade with Hope expands language.  For international affairs, Hope\
	alphabet is occasionally used.  Stone is discovered.\
XXI  (yr. 18)	The Seven Stones are created.  The Peace variant of Hope becomes the\
	world language.\
XXII  (yr. 833)	Present-day.  Post steam engine.  Factory-setting words develop.}