{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Junicode;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 J\'e4stug\uc0\u257  - Lesson 1\
\ulnone \
I - What is J\'e4stug\uc0\u257 ?\
\
J\'e4stug\uc0\u257  is an etymologically-independent language created by Benjamin Shoemake.\u8194 The words in J\'e4stug\u257  are the result of combination and randomization of a few base words, effectively simulating the natural evolution of the Language over thousands of years.\
\
People might want to learn J\'e4stug\uc0\u257  for any of the following reasons:\
1.\uc0\u8194 They are an artist who wishes to remain culturally independent, and thus cannot use names that are derived from any "traditional" language\
2.  They are an artist who wants to add filler text (e.g., a name of a shop that doesn't matter) that most people won't understand and will ignore\
3.  They are an awesome person who likes to communicate with other awesome people\
4.  They are an artist who wants to reward the awesome people in #3\
5.  They are bored and have nothing better to do.\
\
II - The Parts of Speech\
\
J\'e4stug\uc0\u257  has most of the usual parts of speech: articles, adjectives, verbs, conjunctions, pronouns, prepositions, and verbals.\
\
You may notice some rather big players missing from that list: nouns and adverbs.\uc0\u8194 J\'e4stug\u257  does not have standalone nouns or adverbs, but it does have noun phrases and adverb phrases/clauses that perform the same function.\
\
THE ARTICLE:\
Defines a noun phrase.\uc0\u8194 English articles are 
\i the
\i0  (definite) and 
\i a
\i0  (indefinite).\uc0\u8194 J\'e4stuga adds a third article: proper, which serves the same function as capitalization in English.\u8194 Articles do not change based on pluralization (e.g., 
\i a
\i0  to 
\i some
\i0 ).\
\
THE ADJECTIVE:\
Adjectives describe noun phrases.\uc0\u8194 Most words are adjectives, and most of those that aren't can be made into them (exceptions: conjunctions, prepositions, pronouns).\u8194 Some people might tell you that articles are adjectives, too, but since they perform a separate syntactical function, I'm keeping them separate.\
\
THE VERB:\
Verbs are kind of strange in J\'e4stug\uc0\u257 .\u8194 Instead of describing an action, they describe the resulting effect (e.g., 
\i the house was painted
\i0  rather than 
\i he painted the house
\i0 ).\uc0\u8194 This form of writing shares a lot in common with the English passive tense.\
\
THE CONJUNCTIONS:\
And, but, or, nor, et cetera.\uc0\u8194 These join words and independent clauses.\u8194 Subordinating conjunctions form adverb clauses, more on those later.\
\
THE PRONOUNS:\
Take the place of noun phrases.\uc0\u8194 There are lots of kinds: 1st person, 2nd person, 3rd person animate neuter, 3rd person animate feminine, 3rd person inanimate, 1st person demonstrative, 2nd person demonstrative, 3rd person demonstrative, lots of indefinites, animate and inanimate interrogative.\u8194 There aren't any relative pronouns, but who needs 
\i those
\i0 ?\
\
THE POSTPOSITIONS:\
Like 
\i pre
\i0 positions, only post- (this is a real term, look it up).\uc0\u8194 These are used to link adverb/adjective phrases to noun phrases.\u8194 Anything a squirrel can do to a tree, and then some.\
\
THE VERBALS:\
Like verbs, only not.\uc0\u8194 There are two kinds of verbals, participles and infinitives.\u8194 Participles come in three varieties: past, present, and future.\u8194 Infinitives only come in one variety, and are about as close as a word can get to an adverb.\
\
III - Phrases\
\
THE NOUN PHRASE:\
Adjectives are great and all, but without noun phrases, you'll have a hard time saying anything (the subject of every sentence must be a noun phrase).\
\
So, what is a noun phrase?\uc0\u8194 Well, for starters, it describes a person, place, thing, or idea.\u8194 It starts with an article, and ends with an adjective, which the article magically turns into a noun (
\i cold
\i0  becomes 
\i the coldness
\i0 ).\uc0\u8194 Noun phrases may be followed by an adjective to help describe them, or one can put adjective phrases/clauses in between the article and adjective to perform the same function.\
\
THE ADJECTIVE PHRASE:\
Goes inside of a noun phrase.\uc0\u8194 The adjective phrase works just like an adjective, but can give a little more information, and is one of the only ways to use pronouns as adjectives (e.g., to show possession).\u8194 Adjective phrases consist of any adjective or pronoun (both of which act as nouns in this sense), followed by a postposition.\
\
THE ADVERB PHRASE:\
Used to describe verbs and adjectives.\uc0\u8194 The adverb phrase consists of a noun phrase, followed by a postposition.\u8194 When used to describe adjectives, the adverb phrase is stuck before the adjective.\u8194 When used to describe verbs, the adverb phrase goes at the start of a sentence (which will never begin with an adjective), or at the end and separated by a comma.\
\
IV - Sentence Structure & Clauses\
\
The sentence is made up of three parts - subject, verb, and compliment.\uc0\u8194 They go in that order.\u8194 If the compliment is a noun phrase, you can omit the subject, and it can be ambiguously inferred.\u8194 If the compliment is an adjective, the subject must be included.\u8194 You gots to have nouns!\
\
THE INDEPENDENT CLAUSE:\
A sentence attached to another with a conjunction.\uc0\u8194 Pretty simple.\
\
THE ADJECTIVE CLAUSE:\
In English, these all start with relative pronouns and act like normal adjectives.\uc0\u8194 In J\'e4stug\u257 , relative pronouns don't exist, so we have to do things a bit differently.\u8194 Adjective clauses are clauses stuck inside of a noun phrase, where adjective phrases go.\u8194 With an adjective clause, either the subject or the compliment may be omitted and inferred as the noun phrase that the clause is inside of.\u8194 (Neither omitted: 
\i The I-am-not-made-to-face-the-consequences attitude is despised by me
\i0 ; Subject omitted: 
\i The was-built-by-me house was painted
\i0 , meaning 
\i The house which was built by me was painted
\i0 ; Object omitted: 
\i The house-was-built-by man was having happiness
\i0 , meaning 
\i The man who the house was built by was happy
\i0 ; Both omitted: 
\i The was-built house was painted
\i0 , meaning 
\i The house which was built was painted
\i0 , this can be simplified through verbals as 
\i The built house was painted
\i0 , so you'll rarely see adjective clauses with neither a subject or a compliment, as it's considered bad style.)\
\
THE ADVERB CLAUSE:\
Works like an adverb phrase, only with a verb.\uc0\u8194 Adverb clauses consist of a subordinating conjunction, followed by a subordinate clause.\u8194 They go at the end of a sentence, or at the beginning and separated by a comma.\u8194 In other words, things go in the opposite location from adverb phrases.\
\
V - Verbals\
\
Verbals are verbs that pretend to be adjectives, nouns, or adverbs.\uc0\u8194 Examples: eaten, talking, to fly.\u8194 There are two kinds of verbals: participles and infinitives.\
\
Participles are verbs that have turned themselves into adjectives (or, if joined with an article, nouns).\uc0\u8194 You can have past participles (which say what has happened), present participles (which say what is happening), or future participles (which say what will happen).\u8194 Examples: The man was 
\i tired
\i0  (past p. from "to tire"); the man is 
\i sleeping
\i0  (pres. p. from "to sleep"); the man hopes to be 
\i traveling
\i0  to France [in the future].\
\
Infinitives are verbs that aren't tied to anyone in particular; they are used to modify the main verb of the sentence, and as such act as adverb clauses.\uc0\u8194 They can be used, without a subordinating conjunction, anywhere that an adverb clause may be used.\u8194 Although infinitives cannot have subjects, they can have compliments to better define their meaning (The house was painted by the man 
\i to be used
\i0  by his family.)\
\
VI - Classifiers\
\
Classifiers haven't been given their own section yet because, syntactically and semantically, they pretty much act as adjectives.\uc0\u8194 The only thing that sets them apart is that they are required whenever a number is used as a noun, to define what the number is referring to (think of them as units).\u8194 In other words, when a number directly follows a noun phrase, it is an adjective directly describing the noun, and no classifier is needed.\u8194 However, when a number is used in an adjective phrase or clause, it acts as a noun indirectly modifying the noun phrase (via the verb/postposition), and a classifier is required.\u8194 Classifiers include (but are not limited to) people, food, tools, natural, buildings, abstracts, emotions, surfaces, and places.\u8194 Depending on context, a classifier may change, for example 
\i four forests grew
\i0  would use the natural classifier, while 
\i we visited four forests
\i0  would use the places classifier.\
\
Note that other amounts used as nouns also require classifiers, thus, pronouns such as "more" or "less" will always require a classifier.}